README.md, before:

# The NPC Library

The NPC Library is a website where anyone who plays tabletop roleplaying games, creates stories or indeed runs games of LARP can 
come and create NPC's (Otherwise known as Non Player Characters) and store those created NPC's on the website for ease of finding them 
later rather than having to rely on paper notes or one of the other world building websites that can sometimes seem to offer too much.

The Live application for the NPC Library can be found here:

https://lydia-npc-library.onrender.com

# Purpose and Target Audience
### Purpose
The purpose of the NPC Library is to provide a place for Game Masters and other organisers/writers to have a place to store their created Non-Player Characters on a concise site that does not contain anything apart from the list of NPC's. Users will be able to add entry's that will allow them to keep track of their created NPC's with a name, genre, description and role.
### Target Audience
The Target audience for the NPC Library is anyone who wants to keep track of various characters, be they NPC's or other characters who may feature in works of fiction. I hope that this website will be of value to aspiring Game Masters and allow paper notes to become a thing of the past.
# Persona and User Stories
* As an admin I want to be able to delete entry's that are either inappropriate or not in use anymore.
* As a user I want to be able to edit my entry's to update them and also delete them if they become become no longer relevant.
* I want to be able to create an account so I can access the website and not have my entry's available to everyone.
* I want to be able to keep a list of NPC's for my use that I can look at with a glance.
* Add the ability to put a longer description in about each NPC.
* Add the ability to log into the NPC Library.
* Add a section about writing advice for both creating NPC's and wider writing.

# Wireframes and Initial Design
The navbar in the final website looks different to the navbar in the wireframes after I made some adjustments to the formatting.
### Home Page
![Home page](static/images/Final-project-home-page.PNG)

### About Page
![About page](static/images/Final-project-About.PNG)

### NPC Guests
![NPC Guests page](static/images/Final-project-NPC-guests.PNG)

### Writing Advice
![Writing Advice page](static/images/Final-project-Writing-Advice.PNG)

### Log in page
![Log in page](static/images/Final-project-log-in-page-new.PNG)

### Submit an NPC page
![Submit an NPC page](static/images/Final-project-Submit-an-NPC.PNG)

## Mobile Wireframes

### Sign Up
![Sign Up](static/images/Mobile-signup-wireframe.PNG)
### Home Page
![Home Page](static/images/Mobile-Homepage-wireframe.PNG)
### About Page
![About Page](static/images/Mobile-About-wireframe.PNG)
### NPC Guests
![NPC Guests page](static/images/Mobile-NPCGuests-wireframe.PNG)
### Writing Advice
![Writing Advice page](static/images/Mobile-Writingadvice-wireframe.PNG)
### Log in page
![Sign in page](static/images/Mobile-signin-wireframe.PNG)
### Create an NPC
![Create an NPC page](static/images/Mobile-createannpc-wireframe.PNG)
# Agile
For this project I used the agile development method, this was not something I had done before as a solo developer so I took some time at the start of the project to try to go through and do everything properly from the start.I found by creating the Kanban board and user stroies I was able to priorotise and guide myself to fulfil the project criteria. I was able to reduce the normal amount of anxiety and stress I feel when working to a tight dealine by staying focused on one objective at a time.

![Kanban Board](static/images/Kanban-board-final-project.PNG)

# Aesthetic Choices
The colours for the website were picked to give a clean and functional look without distracting bright colours. I tried to have the colour go from lighter to darker as it went down the page.

* Header - #014181

* Text - #ffffff

* Footer - #014181

* Footer Secondary Colour - #495057 / #2c3033

* Fonts - Arial 

## Features

### Log In
The log in page allows anyone who wants to use the website to sign up or log in with a previously created account. 
![Log In Page](static/images/Features-log-in-page.PNG)
### Homepage
A user must make an acount with the website before they are allowed to reach the homepage, I made this so anyone interested in the website would have the oppotunity to create entry's for their own use.
![Homepage](static/images/Features-homepage.PNG)
### About page
This is a page just to give some inofrmation about the creator of the website.
![About Page](static/images/Features-about-page.PNG)
### Writing Advice
This is a page giving some advcie about writing NPC's for people's own use.
![Writing Advice Page](static/images/Features-writing-advice.PNG)
### NPC Guests
The NPC guests page is where users can add new NPC's as well as edit and delte their own entry's. This entry will then be visible on the NPC guest page.
![NPC Guests Page](static/images/Features-NPCguests.PNG)


# Future Plans
In the future I would like to add the following:
* Add a searchbar to make it easier to find specific NPC's.
* Add tags to each entry so they can be marked as Side Quests, Antagonists and Main plot specific NPC's.
* A central list of NPC's anyone can contribute to and can be moderated.
* A way to form a community, perhaps adding a socail media presence.
* Add a way to make comments on their entry's to mark important events.
* Add a linknig system so one NPC can link to another.

### Database Design
![Database Design](static/images/Lucid-App-final-project-database-network.PNG)

I created the Entity Relationship Diagram to help me visaulise how my tables relate to each other, Lucidchart proved a helpful tool in doing so.

### NPC Library Flowchart
![NPC Library Flowchat](static/images/Lucid-app-final-project-flowchart.PNG)

I found the flowchat helpful in visualising what parts of the website needed to be completed in what order as well as tracking down where in the website changes I made might have run into issues.

# Validation
## HTML Validation
Register.html - Some allauth errors..
![Validation for my html - Register](static/images/Final-project-html-validation-Sign-up-page.PNG)
Log In
![Validation for my html - Log in](static/images/Final-project-html-validation.log-in-page.PNG)
Homepage
![Validation for my html - Homepage](static/images/Final-project-html-validation-homepage.PNG)
About
![Validation for my html - About](static/images/Final-project-html-validation-about-page.PNG)
NPC Guests
![Validation for my html - NPC Guests](static/images/Final-project-html-validation-NPCguests-page.PNG)
Create an NPC
![Validation for my html - Create an NPC](static/images/Final-project-html-validation-Create-an-NPC-page.PNG)
Writing Advice
![Validation for my html - Writing Advice](static/images/Final-project-html-validation-writing-advice-page.PNG)
Log out
![Validation for my html - Log out](static/images/Final-project-html-validation-log-out-page.PNG)


## CSS Validation
![Validation for my CSS](static/images/Final-Project-CSS-Validation.PNG)

Validated using Jigsaw. (The reccomended site.)

## Python Validation
Forms.py
![Validation for my Python - forms.py](static/images/Final-project-python-validation-forms.PNG)
Settings.py
![Validation for my Python - settings.py](static/images/Final-project-python-validation-settings.PNG)
Views.py
![Validation for my Python - views.py](static/images/Final-project-python-validation-views.PNG)
Urls.py
![Validation for my Python - urls.py](static/images/Final-project-python-validation-urls.PNG)
Models.py
![Validation for my Python - models.py](static/images/Final-project-python-validation-models.PNG)


Validated using Pep8. (The reccomended site.)

# Responsiveness 
I tested the website on varying device sizes using Google Chrome's developer tools.

I have tested the website on the Google Chrome browser as well as the following sized devices:

## Galaxy Z Fold 5
Homepage

![Homepage View - Galaxy 5](static/images/Galaxy-z-5-test.PNG)

Create an NPC

![Homepage View - Galaxy 5](static/images/Galaxy-z-5-test-create-npc.PNG)

NPC Guest

![NPC Guest View - Galaxy 5](static/images/Galaxy-z-5-test-npc-guests.PNG)

Sign Out Page

![Sign out page - Galaxy 5](static/images/Galaxy-z-5-test-sign-out.PNG)

## Ipad Pro

Homepage

![Homepage View - Ipad Pro](static/images/Ipad-pro-homepage.PNG)

NPC Guest page

![NPC Guests View - Ipad Pro](static/images/Ipad-pro-NPC-guests.PNG)

Create an NPC

![Create an NPC View - Ipad Pro](static/images/Ipad-pro-create-an-npc.PNG)

Sign Out page

![Sign Out page](static/images/Ipad-pro-Sign-out.PNG)

# Testing
## Lighthouse Audit
Homepage

![Homepage Audit](static/images/Lighthouse-audit-homepage.PNG)

About page

![About page Audit](static/images/Lighthouse-audit-about.PNG)

NPC Guests page

![NPC Guests page Audit](static/images/Lighthouse-audit-npcguests.PNG)

Writing Advice

![Writing advice Audit](static/images/Lighthouse-audit-writingadvice.PNG)

Sign In

![Sign in page Audit](static/images/Lighthouse-audit-signin.PNG)

Create an NPC

![Create an NPC page Audit](static/images/Lighthouse-audit-createnanpc.PNG)

Sign Out

![Sign Out Audit](static/images/Lighthouse-audit-signout.PNG)

# Links

# Tools Used

# Languages Used

# Known Bugs

# Deployment

# Credit

Commit message:

Almost done with the readme.

README.md, after:

# The NPC Library

The NPC Library is a website where anyone who plays tabletop roleplaying games, creates stories or indeed runs games of LARP can 
come and create NPC's (Otherwise known as Non Player Characters) and store those created NPC's on the website for ease of finding them 
later rather than having to rely on paper notes or one of the other world building websites that can sometimes seem to offer too much.

The Live application for the NPC Library can be found here:

https://lydia-npc-library.onrender.com

# Purpose and Target Audience
### Purpose
The purpose of the NPC Library is to provide a place for Game Masters and other organisers/writers to have a place to store their created Non-Player Characters on a concise site that does not contain anything apart from the list of NPC's. Users will be able to add entry's that will allow them to keep track of their created NPC's with a name, genre, description and role.
### Target Audience
The Target audience for the NPC Library is anyone who wants to keep track of various characters, be they NPC's or other characters who may feature in works of fiction. I hope that this website will be of value to aspiring Game Masters and allow paper notes to become a thing of the past.
# Persona and User Stories
* As an admin I want to be able to delete entry's that are either inappropriate or not in use anymore.
* As a user I want to be able to edit my entry's to update them and also delete them if they become become no longer relevant.
* I want to be able to create an account so I can access the website and not have my entry's available to everyone.
* I want to be able to keep a list of NPC's for my use that I can look at with a glance.
* Add the ability to put a longer description in about each NPC.
* Add the ability to log into the NPC Library.
* Add a section about writing advice for both creating NPC's and wider writing.
* As an admin I want to be able to delte users or entry's which are no longer in use.

# Wireframes and Initial Design
The navbar in the final website looks different to the navbar in the wireframes after I made some adjustments to the formatting.
### Home Page
![Home page](static/images/Final-project-home-page.PNG)

### About Page
![About page](static/images/Final-project-About.PNG)

### NPC Guests
![NPC Guests page](static/images/Final-project-NPC-guests.PNG)

### Writing Advice
![Writing Advice page](static/images/Final-project-Writing-Advice.PNG)

### Log in page
![Log in page](static/images/Final-project-log-in-page-new.PNG)

### Submit an NPC page
![Submit an NPC page](static/images/Final-project-Submit-an-NPC.PNG)

## Mobile Wireframes

### Sign Up
![Sign Up](static/images/Mobile-signup-wireframe.PNG)
### Home Page
![Home Page](static/images/Mobile-Homepage-wireframe.PNG)
### About Page
![About Page](static/images/Mobile-About-wireframe.PNG)
### NPC Guests
![NPC Guests page](static/images/Mobile-NPCGuests-wireframe.PNG)
### Writing Advice
![Writing Advice page](static/images/Mobile-Writingadvice-wireframe.PNG)
### Log in page
![Sign in page](static/images/Mobile-signin-wireframe.PNG)
### Create an NPC
![Create an NPC page](static/images/Mobile-createannpc-wireframe.PNG)
# Agile
For this project I used the agile development method, this was not something I had done before as a solo developer so I took some time at the start of the project to try to go through and do everything properly from the start.I found by creating the Kanban board and user stroies I was able to priorotise and guide myself to fulfil the project criteria. I was able to reduce the normal amount of anxiety and stress I feel when working to a tight dealine by staying focused on one objective at a time.

![Kanban Board](static/images/Kanban-board-final-project.PNG)

# Aesthetic Choices
The colours for the website were picked to give a clean and functional look without distracting bright colours. I tried to have the colour go from lighter to darker as it went down the page.

* Header - #014181

* Text - #ffffff

* Footer - #014181

* Footer Secondary Colour - #495057 / #2c3033

* Fonts - Arial 

## Features

### Log In
The log in page allows anyone who wants to use the website to sign up or log in with a previously created account. 
![Log In Page](static/images/Features-log-in-page.PNG)
### Homepage
A user must make an acount with the website before they are allowed to reach the homepage, I made this so anyone interested in the website would have the oppotunity to create entry's for their own use.
![Homepage](static/images/Features-homepage.PNG)
### About page
This is a page just to give some inofrmation about the creator of the website.
![About Page](static/images/Features-about-page.PNG)
### Writing Advice
This is a page giving some advcie about writing NPC's for people's own use.
![Writing Advice Page](static/images/Features-writing-advice.PNG)
### NPC Guests
The NPC guests page is where users can add new NPC's as well as edit and delte their own entry's. This entry will then be visible on the NPC guest page.
![NPC Guests Page](static/images/Features-NPCguests.PNG)


# Future Plans
In the future I would like to add the following:
* Add a searchbar to make it easier to find specific NPC's.
* Add tags to each entry so they can be marked as Side Quests, Antagonists and Main plot specific NPC's.
* A central list of NPC's anyone can contribute to and can be moderated.
* A way to form a community, perhaps adding a socail media presence.
* Add a way to make comments on their entry's to mark important events.
* Add a linknig system so one NPC can link to another.

### Database Design
![Database Design](static/images/Lucid-App-final-project-database-network.PNG)

I created the Entity Relationship Diagram to help me visaulise how my tables relate to each other, Lucidchart proved a helpful tool in doing so.

### NPC Library Flowchart
![NPC Library Flowchat](static/images/Lucid-app-final-project-flowchart.PNG)

I found the flowchat helpful in visualising what parts of the website needed to be completed in what order as well as tracking down where in the website changes I made might have run into issues.

# Validation
## HTML Validation
Register.html - Some allauth errors..
![Validation for my html - Register](static/images/Final-project-html-validation-Sign-up-page.PNG)
Log In
![Validation for my html - Log in](static/images/Final-project-html-validation.log-in-page.PNG)
Homepage
![Validation for my html - Homepage](static/images/Final-project-html-validation-homepage.PNG)
About
![Validation for my html - About](static/images/Final-project-html-validation-about-page.PNG)
NPC Guests
![Validation for my html - NPC Guests](static/images/Final-project-html-validation-NPCguests-page.PNG)
Create an NPC
![Validation for my html - Create an NPC](static/images/Final-project-html-validation-Create-an-NPC-page.PNG)
Writing Advice
![Validation for my html - Writing Advice](static/images/Final-project-html-validation-writing-advice-page.PNG)
Log out
![Validation for my html - Log out](static/images/Final-project-html-validation-log-out-page.PNG)


## CSS Validation
![Validation for my CSS](static/images/Final-Project-CSS-Validation.PNG)

Validated using Jigsaw. (The reccomended site.)

## Python Validation
Forms.py
![Validation for my Python - forms.py](static/images/Final-project-python-validation-forms.PNG)
Settings.py
![Validation for my Python - settings.py](static/images/Final-project-python-validation-settings.PNG)
Views.py
![Validation for my Python - views.py](static/images/Final-project-python-validation-views.PNG)
Urls.py
![Validation for my Python - urls.py](static/images/Final-project-python-validation-urls.PNG)
Models.py
![Validation for my Python - models.py](static/images/Final-project-python-validation-models.PNG)


Validated using Pep8. (The reccomended site.)

# Responsiveness 
I tested the website on varying device sizes using Google Chrome's developer tools.

I have tested the website on the Google Chrome browser as well as the following sized devices:

## Galaxy Z Fold 5
Homepage

![Homepage View - Galaxy 5](static/images/Galaxy-z-5-test.PNG)

Create an NPC

![Homepage View - Galaxy 5](static/images/Galaxy-z-5-test-create-npc.PNG)

NPC Guest

![NPC Guest View - Galaxy 5](static/images/Galaxy-z-5-test-npc-guests.PNG)

Sign Out Page

![Sign out page - Galaxy 5](static/images/Galaxy-z-5-test-sign-out.PNG)

## Ipad Pro

Homepage

![Homepage View - Ipad Pro](static/images/Ipad-pro-homepage.PNG)

NPC Guest page

![NPC Guests View - Ipad Pro](static/images/Ipad-pro-NPC-guests.PNG)

Create an NPC

![Create an NPC View - Ipad Pro](static/images/Ipad-pro-create-an-npc.PNG)

Sign Out page

![Sign Out page](static/images/Ipad-pro-Sign-out.PNG)

# Testing
## Lighthouse Audit
Homepage

![Homepage Audit](static/images/Lighthouse-audit-homepage.PNG)

About page

![About page Audit](static/images/Lighthouse-audit-about.PNG)

NPC Guests page

![NPC Guests page Audit](static/images/Lighthouse-audit-npcguests.PNG)

Writing Advice

![Writing advice Audit](static/images/Lighthouse-audit-writingadvice.PNG)

Sign In

![Sign in page Audit](static/images/Lighthouse-audit-signin.PNG)

Create an NPC

![Create an NPC page Audit](static/images/Lighthouse-audit-createnanpc.PNG)

Sign Out

![Sign Out Audit](static/images/Lighthouse-audit-signout.PNG)

| Feature | Expected Outcome | Grade | Screenshots |
| ------- | ---------------- | ----- | --------- |
| User Log in | Users are ablew to log into the website | Pass | ![User Log in](static/images/Features-log-in-page.PNG) |
| View NPC entries | Users are able to view the NPC's they have created | Pass | ![View of NPC Entries](static/images/Features-NPCguests.PNG) |
| Add a section called writing advice | Users will be able to see the writing advice page | Pass | ![View of the Writing Advice page](static/images/Features-writing-advice.PNG) |
| Admin can delete users and entries | Admin will be able to delete admins and users as they wish | Pass | ![Admin view](static/images/Final-project-admin-access.PNG) |
| Add an NPC | Users are able to create new NPC entry's | Pass | ![Create new NPC](static/images/Final-project-createnanpc.PNG) |
| Put NPC Description in place | Users will be able to provide a description for different NPC's | Pass | ![View of the description box for NPC Entry's](static/images/Final-project-npcdescription.PNG)
| User can delete and edit NPC's | Users will be able to make changes to their entry's or delete them if they are no longer relevent | Pass | ![Edit or delete NPC's](static/images/Final-project-editnpc.PNG) |
| User Sign Up | Users are ablew to sign up to an account | Pass | ![User Log in](static/images/Final-project-signuppage.PNG) |
| Footer | A Footer with a motivational quote is present | Pass | ![User Log in](static/images/Final-project-footer.PNG) |
| User Log out | Users are ablew to log out the website | Pass | ![User Log in](static/images/Final-project-logoutpage.PNG) |

# Links
| Link | Expected result | Pass/Fail |
| ------- | ---------------- | ----- |
| Logo | Navigates to the homepage when clicked | Pass |
| Homepage | Navigates to the homepage when clicked | Pass |
| About | Navigates to a About  page when clicked | Pass |
| NPC Guests | Navigates to NPC Guests page when clicked | Pass |
| Create an NPC | Navigates to a page allowing the user to create an NPC | Pass |
| Writing Advice | Navigates to Writing Advice when clicked | Pass |
| Sign In | Navigates to a screen where users can Sign in when clicked | Pass |
| Logout | Navigates to a page confirming for the user to log out | Pass |
| Sign Up | Navigates to a page confirming for the user to Sign up | Pass |

# Tools Used
* Python used as the back-end programming language
* Git used for version control, utilising git add, git commit and git push.
*
# Languages Used

# Known Bugs

# Deployment

# Credit
